---
sidebar_position: 3
title: Policies
---

## Attendance/Participation Expectations

* You are expected to attend and participate in all class activities.
* You are responsible for maintaining a line of communication with me regarding your performance.
* You're encouraged to help your classmates via the channel.
  * this may count towards extra credit points when your grade needs it.
  * If you're not sure if your help would be considered cheating/plagiarism, reach out and ask.

## Communication protocols

* I will post announcements on Canvas (make sure it’s connected to your email)
* For *assignment-related questions* please ask you questions on the MS Teams channel and engage with your fellow classmates.
  * You're also encouraged to participate and answer any questions your fellow classmates may post on teams. **(this counts towards extra credit points)**
  * When posting a question about your code, you must include:
    * What you are trying to do
    * What have you already tried
* For *grading-related questions*, please email the TA and copy me on the communication.
  * Please note `IT1081C` in the email subject.
* For any email communication with me or the TA, make sure to:
  * Send it FROM your School UC email.
  * Send it TO my School UC email :) [reedws@ucmail.uc.edu](mailto:reedws@ucmail.uc.edu).
* please review my [Service Level Agreement](sla) for more (important) info about when to expect a response.

## Technical Difficulties

If you are having technical difficulties with the CECH Sandbox system (VM won’t turn on, unable to mount ISO file, unresponsive VM) please review the OCR/Sandbox Student Resources module on Canvas. The only time technical difficulties are guaranteed to change the assignment due date is in the event CECH Sandbox going down. I recommend always starting labs early as the sandbox system tends to get slow close to assignment due dates.

## Course Evaluation

The School of Information Technology requires that each course is evaluated each time it is taught. The School uses a confidential web-based system, CoursEval, for these evaluations. At the beginning of finals week,you will receive an email from the School Head, with “CoursEval” as the topic. There is a link on that email that takes you directly to the evaluation. The online system is anonymous. I will receive only a summary report of combined data after final grades have been submitted.

As an instructor, I greatly value your input regarding the strengths and areas for improvement of this course. Your feedback is essential for me to continually improve instruction and provide for quality student learning and outcomes.

## Late or Missing Policy

* Quizzes will not be accepted (and will not be available) once the due date has passed.
* Late work grade will be deducted 10% per day and no late work will be accepted after one week.
* No Exception or additional extensions will be given except for the two University-approved situations:
  * Accommodations requested and verified in advance from the Office of Disability Services.
  * Religious holidays, when I am notified of them in advance.

## Assignment Submission Workflow and Expectations

* Student will submit each lab using the provided template. Lab submissions not using the template will be deducted points.
* Sharing of In-Class Quiz or Exam passwords with students not present in the class is prohibited and will result in a zero for the quiz/exam for the student who was not present and the student who shared the password.
