---
sidebar_position: 6
title: Course Outline (subject to change)
sidebar_label: Course Outline
---

## Assignments

* Assignments and Labs are open book, open note, open internet
  * Be aware the internet may come up with a different solution than the one in class and that may or may not be correct

### Instructional Assignments and Assessments

* Each module will have an instructional assignment that should be completed before class.
* Instructional Assignments are designed to walk you through the content for the module.
* There will be hands-on tasks you must complete throughout each instructional assignment.
* These assignments should be completed on your own, but feel free to ask for help.
* There will be an assessment for each instructional assignment. Screen shots from the assignment will be required.
* Each instructional assignment must be completed before the Module Lab.

### In Class Labs

* Labs are designed to give you a real-world scenario to help apply concepts and skills covered in class.
* Each lab will build upon the previous lab assignment. Some assignments may require you to fix mistakes in order to complete the next assignment.
* Labs are expected to be worked on in class they day they are assigned.
* Lab reports are due at the beginning of the following class.
* Working with other students is encouraged during lab times. Feel free to use any resources available (including the instructor) to complete the labs.
* Lab resubmissions will be allowed for labs that were turned in on-time provided the original submission shows an effort was made to complete the assignment.

### Exams

All exams are comprehensive; all material covered in class or in assignments may be asked. Each exam will consist of a written portion and lab project to be completed in class. Make up exams will only be offered if a student provides a valid doctor’s note or excused absence. If a makeup exam is offered, it is not guaranteed to be the same exam that other students are given.

### Final Project

The final project is designed to assess your ability to use the skills and knowledge learned throughout the course. The project contains two parts, one using a Linux System and one using a Windows Server system. The final project instructions are available to view at any time but must be completed by the due date specified. A more detailed explanation will be given at the end of the semester when the project is assigned.

You are free to use any resource to help complete the project, excluding the instructor. Think of the project as an open world test. You may use your notes, ask for help from others, or even use the Internet.

## Course Modules

### Module 1 Introduction to Systems Administration

#### Objectives

* Describe the role of a Systems Administrator and the necessary skills needed.
* Demonstrate the deployment of virtual machines using the CECH Sandbox.

### Module 2 Introduction to Linux

#### Objectives

* Identify the different installation options for Linux
* Define the Linux Kernel and a Linux distribution
* Identify the bash shell prompt
* Define basic command structure terminology
* Demonstrate the installation of Linux on a bare system
* Demonstrate basic command shell navigation

### Module 3 Linux Directories and Files

#### Objectives

* Identify the basic Linux file structure
* Define file paths and explain when to use relative and absolute paths
* Create and manage files and directories from the CLI
* Create and edit text and configuration files from the CLI

### Module 4 Linux Users, Groups, and Permissions

#### Objectives

* Identify and explain the different types of users accounts in Linux
* Explain the reasons for using groups of users
* Identify how user and group information is stored in Linux
* Create and manage users and groups through the Linux CLI
* Set proper file permissions in Linux using the CLI

### Module 5 Linux Software Management

#### Objectives

* Identify the different methods of installing software in Linux
* Define the requirements for installing software
* Install software on a Linux system using three different methods
* Explain the process of installing source code on Linux

### Module 6 Linux Processes and Services

#### Objectives

* Identify and manage processes and services running on a Linux system
* Describe the different states of a Linux process
* Create a simple BASH script to complete a task
* Automate a task to run on a schedule with cron
* Describe target levels and what they are used for

### Module 7 Linux Network Services

#### Objectives

* Configure basic network settings on a Linux server
* Configure basic security settings on a Linux server
* Demonstrate remote management of a Linux server
* Configure and test several network services
* Describe the properties of several network services
* Demonstrate the use of knowledge and skills learned previously to plan and configure a complete and functional Linux server

### Exam 1

### Module 8 Introduction to Windows Server

#### Objectives

* Describe the different installation options for Windows
* List what Windows Update provides to the system
* Install a Stand-Alone Windows Server
* Explore and utilize the tools built into Windows Server

### Module 9 Windows Files and Directories

#### Objectives

* Explore and describe the Windows file structure
* Create and manage folders and files within Windows
* Explain the purpose of file extensions in Windows operating systems

### Module 10 Windows Users and Groups

#### Objectives

* Describe the different types of Window user accounts
* Create an manage local user accounts on a Windows system
* Explain the purpose of user groups on a Windows system
* Create and manage local groups on a Windows system

### Module 11 Windows Roles and Networking

#### Objectives

* Configure Static Network Settings on a Windows system
* Explain what Roles, Role Services, and Features are in Windows Server
* Install roles, Role Services, and Features on a Windows Server

### Module 12 Windows File and Web Server

#### Objectives

* Configure shared folders using Windows Server
* Describe the differences between NTFS and Share permissions
* List the different NTFS and Share permissions
* Apply permissions to Windows Shared Folders
* Configure a basic Web Server with Windows Server

### Module 13 Final Project

### Exam 2
